Ratatouille: Real-Time Previsualization Tool for On-Set VFX
Ratatouille is a cutting-edge previsualization application designed for artists working on live-action sets. It allows real-time visualization of visual effects (VFX) simulations directly over live-action footage. By integrating video processing with procedural simulations in Houdini, Ratatouille empowers on-set artists to experiment with effects, refine their vision, and deliver previsualized content to VFX studios with ease.

Purpose
The goal of Ratatouille is to enable artists to visualize simulations dynamically layered over live-action footage in real-time. This helps bridge the gap between creative vision and technical execution, ensuring that directors, producers, and VFX teams are aligned before the post-production process begins.

Core Intentions
Provide real-time feedback for on-set simulations, ensuring the effects align with the scene’s creative intent.
Allow artists to apply simulations dynamically and preview them directly on the live-action footage.
Facilitate a streamlined handoff to VFX studios by exporting geometry, simulation data, and previsualized overlays.
Key Features
Real-Time Video Integration:

Supports live camera feeds or pre-recorded video.
Detects scene geometry (e.g., polygons, edges) dynamically.
Procedural Simulations:

Apply effects like particles, smoke, and fluids to the detected geometry.
Simulations are generated using Houdini’s powerful procedural system.
Dynamic Overlay System:

Layer simulations over live-action footage in real-time.
Ensure accurate alignment with scene geometry.
Export Capabilities:

Export previsualized videos with simulation overlays.
Export scene geometry and simulation attributes in formats like USD or JSON for VFX studios.
Artist-Friendly Interface:

Intuitive controls for uploading video, selecting simulations, and adjusting parameters.
Interactive timeline for stepping through footage frame-by-frame.
Workflow
1. Input Live-Action Footage
Artists can upload a video file or connect a live camera feed.
The application analyzes the video to detect polygons and key scene features.
2. Select and Configure Simulations
Choose from a library of simulation presets (e.g., particles, fire, smoke).
Adjust parameters such as intensity, gravity, and scale to fit the scene.
3. Preview Simulations
Visualize the simulation layered over the live-action footage in real-time.
Use interactive tools to adjust timing, positioning, and blending.
4. Export for VFX Pipeline
Export previsualized videos to communicate creative intent.
Export simulation-ready geometry and attributes for further refinement by the VFX studio.
Technical Details
1. Video Processing
OpenCV is used to process live-action footage.
Polygons are detected using edge detection and contour approximation.
Polygon data (vertices, attributes) is formatted as JSON for integration.
2. Houdini Integration
Houdini’s Python API is used to reconstruct geometry and apply simulations.
Simulations are rendered frame-by-frame with transparency for compositing.
3. Real-Time Overlay
Simulations are composited over the original video using OpenCV’s alpha blending.
Positioning and timing adjustments ensure accurate alignment with live-action footage.
System Requirements
Python Libraries:
OpenCV: For video processing and polygon detection.
Imutils: For efficient frame manipulation.
PyQt5: For the GUI.
pxr: For USD support (optional).
Houdini:
Houdini 18.5 or later.
Python scripting enabled for simulation integration.
Setup and Usage
1. Clone the Repository
bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ratatouille.git
cd ratatouille
2. Install Dependencies
bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Run the Application
bash
Copy code
python main_window.py
Use Case: On-Set Previsualization
Director’s Input:

A director requests a quick visualization of smoke effects interacting with the scene.
Artist Workflow:

Connect the live camera feed to Ratatouille.
Detect the scene geometry (e.g., the ground plane, walls).
Apply a smoke simulation preset in Houdini and adjust intensity and timing.
Instant Feedback:

Preview the smoke simulation layered over the live footage in real-time.
Adjust parameters until the director’s vision is achieved.
Handoff to VFX Studio:

Export the scene geometry and simulation data to USD.
Export a previsualized video as a creative reference.
Planned Features
Machine Learning for Scene Analysis:

Use AI to enhance geometry detection and feature recognition.
Advanced Simulation Presets:

Include more procedural effects such as water, debris, and explosions.
Cloud Integration:

Enable remote collaboration by sending previsualized data to cloud-based VFX systems.
Support for AR and VR:

Extend Ratatouille’s capabilities to augmented and virtual reality for immersive previsualization.
Contributing
Contributions are welcome! To contribute:

Fork the repository.
Create a new branch for your feature: git checkout -b feature-name.
Commit and push your changes: git push origin feature-name.
Submit a pull request.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

